
SimpleNodeInformationS.odt
Line Severity Comment
   2  minor   Footer should have page number/data right justified
      minor   Center the header on pages 2+
  16  minor   "Other nodes which ... other nodes for interaction" could be
              worded better.  Maybe remove the first "Other"
  29  minor   May need to pull ACDI reference depending if we keep it
  63  minor   The internal document link text style seems unnatural to me.
              I suggest we apply no special formatting to these links.  I also
              recommend removing the "#" symbol, also seems unnatural
  73  minor   The internal decument link text style seems unnatural to me...


SimpleNodeInformationTN.odt
Line Severity Comment
      minor   Center the header on pages 2+
   6  minor   add additional newline as paragraph separation
  11  minor   add addtiional newline as paragraph separation
  12  minor   change "browse" to "browser"
  17  minor   OpenLCB is not a protocol stack, it is a protocl standard.
              OpenMRN is a protocol stack.
  23  minor   add addtiional newline as paragraph separation
  23  minor   "on the other hand" reused on line 24/25, reading is awkward
  30  minor   change "protocol stack" to "implementation"
  78  minor   May need to pull ACDI reference depending if we keep it
  86  minor   May need to pull ACDI reference depending if we keep it
  73  minor   The internal decument link text style seems unnatural to me...
  97  minor   This is very clear to me, but it may not be verbose enough for
              someone who does not have 2+ years of familiarity with OpenLCB.
              In particular, maybe elaborate on the 0x04 value = number of
              null terminated strings.  We say that it will "double" as a
              count, but it need to be clear that the count is the prefered
              method and the 0x01 is maintained only for historical reasons
 113  minor   should we state that not using the framing bits for future nodes
              is deprecated and that all future nodes should use the framing
              bits?
 127  minor   change "formatter" to "formatted"
  89  minor   section heading inconsistent with Standards document


GlossaryTN.odt
Line Severity Comment
      major   improperly named, should be "GlossaryTN.odt" not "Glossary.odt"
  72  minor   The first 1-7 bytes are used for the Datagram Protocol ID
  81  minor   consequently spelled incorrectly
  90  minor   Etherent should start with a capital letter
  96  minor   for consistency, either capitalize G in global or lower case a in
              Addressed


CommonInformationTN.odt
Line Severity Comment
      major   improperly named, should be "CommonInformationTN.odt not
              "CommonInformation.odt"
  23  minor   "internet" should begin with a capital "I"
  25  minor   This is not consistently true.  For example, in the
              UniqueIdentifiers and UniqueEvents, byte 1 is the first byte.  I
              suggest adding "unless otherwise specified..." as we do specify
              this in detail in both Unique* docs.
  82  MAJOR   most (maybe all) of the standards docs (including EventTransportS
              and DatagramTransportS) do not follow this table format and are
              not even consistent with one another.  We need to resolve this!!!
  96  MAJOR   same as previous comment!!!




