   Layout Command and Control – LCC

   Documentation Package

   February 2016

                                     This package of Standards and Technical Notes

                                            are submitted to the NMRA Board

                                                for Ratification as the

                                                 First Official Release

                                                           of

                                            Layout Command and Control – LCC

   This set of Standards and Technical Notes documents forms the basis and infrastructure for an extensible and
   flexible layout control bus system for Model Railroads. It is designed for both the novice and experienced
   modeler, and both small personal and large modular group layout.

   It was developed in public by the OpenLCB Development Team with the input from many people but especially the
   members of the OpenLCB egroup on Yahoogroups. It is the accumulation of years of work, following the NMRA Board
   mandated Goals and Mandate, and the self-determined Goals and Measures documents.

   These documents have been open to review for more than six months. The comments and errors were collected,
   considered and applied to the documents. Material changes are documented in each document's cover sheet.

   In addition, two sets of documents are being submitted for acceptance as Drafts, to be published for a six-month
   comment period. These are:

     * CAN Physical Standard and Technical Note: Three manufacturers have requested changes to allow them to provide
       one connection on their LCC command stations. The updated documents allow a low-current DCC signal to be
       optionally carried on the two unassigned wires in the CAN Physical cable, in accordance with the pre-existing
       NMRA S-9.1.2 DCC Power Station Interface standard.

     * Firmware Upgrade Standard and Technical Note: This allows nodes to update their firmware over LCC. This was
       requested by manufacturers, and in use by one in their products.

   The OpenLCB Development Team: Stuart Baker USA, Balazs Racz Switzerland, Alex Shepherd New Zealand, David Harris
   Canada, Brian Barnst USA, Dick Bronson USA, Ken Cameron USA, Don Goodman-Wilson USA, Tim Hatch USA, Bob Jacobsen
   USA, Jim Kueneman USA, and others who have contributed their knowledge and inspiration.

   Special thanks to Stephen Priest, NMRA Board Liaison, and the members of the OpenLCB egroup, especially Robert
   Middleton, for their discussion, suggestions and review of the documents.
