   PowerPlusWaterMarkObject1

                                                           OpenLCB Technical Note

                                                    Simple NodeTrain Information Protocol

                                                       Aug 2, 2020         Preliminary      

                                                     1 Introduction

   There is a need for something for tinytrain nodes, that uses a single message instead of datagrams and
   configuration. This allows getting getting the information with a bare minimum of support at the requested node
   end, so long as the requesting node can be sure to handle it.

   they can exist independently of whether ACDI is present in the node or not.IIN

   See the larger description in the ACDI TN, which should be copied here too. But note that S

                                             2 Annotations to the Standard

2.1 Introduction

   Note that this section of the Standard is informative, not normative.

2.2 Intended Use

   Note that this section of the Standard is informative, not normative.

2.3 Reference and Context

   Cross-link to ACDI is important.

2.4 Messages

                       Name                      Dest ID        Common           CAN format          Data Content     
                                                                           
                                                                 MTI       
       Simple NodeTrain Information Request         Y         0x35200DA8    0x1Edd19DA,d8sss 52          fddd         

                    Name                  Dest ID      Common           CAN format               Data Content         
                                                                  
                                                         MTI      
     Simple NodeTrain Information Reply      Y       0x353009C8   0x1Edd,d199C,s8ss 53s    fddd, Content, see below   

   The Simple NodeTrain Information Reply message(s) carry a stream of bytes:

     * The byte 1 to indicate the version of the following content

     * A null-terminated string for manufacturerthe road name name(i.e. “Rio Grande Southern”) bytes including
       terminating null41 of no more than is recommended, but not required that this string be 32 characters or less
       based on a single line display of a modern smart phone.

     * A null-terminated string for the node model nametrain class (i.e. “K-27”). bytes including terminating null41
       of no more than is recommended, but not required that this string be 32 characters or less based on a single
       line display of a modern smart phone.

     * A null-terminated string for the node hardware versionroad number (i.e. “455”). bytes including terminating
       null21 of no more than is recommended, but not required that this string be 32 characters or less based on a
       single line display of a modern smart phone.

     * A null-terminated string for node software versionthe train name (i.e “San Juan Express”). bytes including
       terminating null21 of no more than is recommended, but not required that this string be 32 characters or less
       based on a single line display of a modern smart phone.

     * * The byte 1 to indicate the version of the following content

     * A null-terminated string for user-provided node name of no more than 63 bytes including terminating null.

     * A null-terminated string for user-provided node description of no more than 64 bytes including terminating
       null.A null-terminated string for the manufactures name (i.e “Blackstone”) is recommended, but not required
       that this string be 32 characters or less based on a single line display of a modern smart phone.

     * A null-terminated string for the owners name (i.e “John Smith”) is recommended, but not required that this
       string be 32 characters or less based on a single line display of a modern smart phone.

     * [Optional] One byte to indicate Legacy Proxy Technology, see Traction Proxy Protocol.

     * [Optional] One word to indicate Legacy Proxy Train ID, see Traction Proxy Protocol.

     * [Optional] One byte to indicate Legacy Proxy Parameter 0 (for DCC this is the NMRA DCC speed steps), see the
       Traction Proxy Protocol.

     * [Optional] Remaining bytes for the Legacy Proxy Parameters depending on the Legacy Proxy Technology field, see
       the Traction Proxy Protocol.

   Note that the total length, including version numbers and nulls, must be less than [253] bytes. This is based on
   the length of SNIP. There is discussion as to if this limit is needed. The argument is due to buffer management in
   a bridge between a fast and slow physical layer (Ethernet to CAN for instance). The bridge must buffer the entire
   Ethernet message then split it into CAN 8 byte messages. Having a fixed max length allows fixed buffers in the
   software/firmware development.

   Since the size of the returned information is variable the protocol uses the Framing Bits in the destination
   address as described in the General Message Network document. Counting null bytes and fixed locations for data
   within the data stream will not be possible with the STNIP

   The data returned by STIP must equivalent that is returned in the corresponding elements in the CDI Protocol.

   bytes.253Note that the total length, including version numbers and nulls, must be less than

2.5 Interactions

   When a node gets a SimpleSimple NodeTrain Information Request, if possible it shall reply with one or more Simple
   NodeTrain Information Reply messages containing the node'strain information. If it's not able to process the
   information, it shall send an Optional Interaction Rejected with an appropriate error code.

   It's recommended that the rejection message have the temporary-error bit set, so that the node sending the
   original request will retry it.

                                                     3 Draft notes

   Handling a second request while sending the first: If they can't be queued for later (immediate) processing, the
   node can reply with OptionalInteractionRejected message that indicates the issue is temporary, and that the
   request should be retried if the information is still desired.

   (Setting of the first/last bits to make it a message; “because this version of the specification predates the use
   of first/last bits”, nodes initiating a transfer must be able to handle a series of reply messages)

   Do nodes sending the response need to be able to resend it in response to a TerminateDueToError? This might be
   needed is e.g. a gateway gets congested while merging frames.

   The information returned is intended to be considered static: A node may request it and never have to request it
   again, because it won't change. But the user might change the user-provided node name. How will other nodes know
   to do a SNTIIP request? They don't. Configuration tools could force themselves to reacquire the data, but there's
   no global notification of the change. (Allowing the node to only change on reset would fix that, because we could
   have SNPIIP users re-request the info when they see the reset.)

   Table of Contents

   1 Introduction 1

   2 Annotations to the Standard 1

   2.1 Introduction 1

   2.2 Intended Use 1

   2.3 Reference and Context 1

   2.4 Messages 1

   2.5 Interactions 2

   3 Draft notes 2

   Copyright 2012, 2013. All rights reserved. See http://openlcb.org/Licensing.html for license terms.  Page 1 of 3 -
   Aug 2, 2020Aug 2, 2020
